On the second side, we're now departing Caldwell.
A three or four page syllabus
which tried to explain as
clearly, simply, plainly as possible
what the course covered.
and how
grades would be calculated.
Never, never, never
did I grade on a curve
and always tried to persuade the group, but I hoped
every one of them would make an A,
but that my experience
had led me to believe that the odds were
comparatively small or comparatively high that
such
a circumstance would probably not occur.
That explanation of grades included
how the papers were graded, what each of the tests
counted in terms of the semester grade, so that
they would always be able to calculate
how they were progressing during the semester.
At first, I
gave all essay tests, but as the sections got
larger, we mixed
essays and multiple choice questions.
In those multiple choice questions, I always
tried to select at least a few questions from every
lecture.
But an equal number from the text alone and about
another third
from text that were included in both text and
lectures. Thus,
in the opening lecture, I tried to emphasize to the
students that if they hoped to make a high grade,
they would need to be present each day
take notes which they studied regularly, and also
read their text regularly.
I urged them to read the text before they came to
class,
following the listing in the syllabus of each
lecture, each day's lecture topic, and the
readings which related to that material. Thus, if
they read the material in advance and either
underline or highlighted what seemed to be the
most important points, they would have a, quote,
distilled version, quote, of the textual
information before hearing the lecture. Then, if
they took adequate notes during the lecture,
I begged them to review those notes before they
went to sleep on the same
day of that
class meeting.
Finally,
my counsel was that once a week, if they would
review again their
class notes and the text, the highlighted
material in the text, they would begin to refine
the material and file it away in their cranial
computer.
Then, when the test came, which were given about
once a month,
three tests
plus the final,
they would be able then to review the material
which they had been learning gradually through
the semester.
In my opinion, the worst of all possible styles for
handling the course for a student was to postpone
everything and then try to bone up in the wee hours
one or two nights before the test. That, to me, was
particularly inadvisable for the
final exam.
Paragraph. For all of those years, I checked the
roll every day in every section. trying to explain
in the syllabus that whether they attended or not
was their business and that there was no
punishment for their being absent, but that if
they were present for every class meeting
with a maximum of two absences, then they could
drop the low grade prior to the final exam. Thus,
there was a reward for being present. And because
of the number of students and the fact that there
was no deduction for absences, I would not
entertain
material, I would not review their materials
relating to, quote, excused absences.
excuse absent, put that in quotation marks, dash,
thus they were either present or absent. And for
being present regularly, there was a return,
there was a distinctive
return on their investment of time.
In delivering the lectures,
while I had my lecture outlines up on the front of
the lectern, I tended to move around a great deal in
the front of the room,
believing that that process would help to
discourage sleepers,
non-note takers,
and other youngsters who were daydreaming.
Sometimes there were attempts, sometimes I made
attempts to tease
a youngster who was obviously not listening to the
lecture.
or to feign
deep discouragement
over such a practice.
On those occasions when I found a youngster
asleep,
back up, in that paragraph, in that first class
meeting. I always told the students that if
we found someone asleep, we would try to wake them
up and then ask them to stand and give their name,
hometown, high school name, and sing the high
school fight song.
On the comparatively few times in all of those
years of teaching that someone did go to sleep.
And I followed that routine. I always tried to be
very sure to speak personally with that student
immediately after class
to assure them that there was no continuing anger
on my part.
In addition, I wanted to ensure that there was not
some personal problem which was handicapping
that student
and which I should help to solve.
At A&M, the students, particularly in the early
years when the Corps members filled all the
freshman classes,
the students were accustomed the following
directions.
And they quickly
followed the directions which I placed on them.
Because of my own small town and working class
experience,
I was able to identify with
these young men
sooner than I realized at the time.
Some of them were short of cash,
but almost all of them were well supplied with
dreams, ambition, and determination.
Occasionally,
there were a few pranks in class,
like some fish trying to give a core sophomore a hot
foot.
are putting some well chewed gum in a late arrivers
seat.
Possibly someone tried to
come to class on behalf of a friend, but I never was
aware of any attempt
at such a practice.
I do remember one year when the students learned
that I collected bricks from historic buildings
Someone from the back of the room asked if I had
anything from the Alamo and of course I responded
by saying no and that surely no one would dare touch
such a sacred spot.
A few weeks later the first class session after the
returned from spring break, a trio of smiling fish
came up to the lectern after the others departed.
They mentioned the question about the Alamo and
smiled as
one of their group
placed a hunk of gray limestone
placed a
small bundle of, a small
item wrapped in newspapers
on the lector.
As I opened it, It was obviously a piece of gray
limestone.
And I simply said you did. And they smiled and said,
why not? We thought you'd enjoy it. When I asked
them. What part of the building did they attack?
They said the Southwest. Corner of the exterior.
And a few months later. When I had. When I passed
through. The Alamo City.
I walked to that part of the. Mission wall. I
noticed that the. There was.
A
dent. In the corner. of the building where
apparently a piece of rock had been knocked loose
recently.
Paragraph, more interesting anecdote about A&M
students involved
some freshman in a 105 class.
But I think I've already talked about that one. So I
should not continue that.
Now let's jump to Beginning the task with
Dr. Calhoun,
my next door office mate,
who welcomed me with a broad smile,
was Richard E. Winerdi, W-A-I-N-E-R-D-I.
a marvelously talented
petroleum engineer who had studied with Dr.
Calhoun in New York and at Oklahoma and at
Pennsylvania State University.
I don't believe I have ever served with a more
talented
and broad and
broadly, brightly inquisitive individual than
Dick Quinerty.
Some of my associates quickly told me that of their
frustration with him at his sharp temperament and
quick
decision making. I never saw that side of his
personality because with me, he was always
tirelessly thoughtful, helpful, and
considerate.
Although engineering was his official field of
study,
he was well-read and
curiously inquisitive in an almost limitless
horizon
of subjects.
Paragraph, as we began our task, he was the
associate vice president for academic affairs.
I, the assistant, and Dr. Calhoun, the vice
president.
Winerdi and I attacked
the total spectrum of work on the campus.
And there was no clearly defined
separation of responsibilities.
Yet he primarily looked at science, engineering,
and technology and I, social sciences,
humanities, education, business, et cetera.
Also, teaching anything related to instruction
came to my desk first while research
and service went to his.
Paragraph, Dr. Calhoun always wanted to be
well-informed about every topic
of general interest, and so there were many, many
conversations with him,
both brief and extended.
throughout the months, throughout the years.
In some instances, that meant simply to pop into
his office and mention a topic quickly or
to engage in an extended discussion
At the end of the day, following the departure of
all of the other staff members.
Before very before. Very long in the Calhoun.
Years.
There was a. separate research office that
adjoined ours.
And when my title changed to dean of faculties,
all faculty matters of appointments, promotion,
tenure and any problems relating to those matters
became my responsibility. Paragraph.
On the many occasions when Dr. Calhoun was on the
road, be it Austin, Washington, or anywhere else,
when Erdie and I would try to have all of his
correspondence
surveyed
with the draft responses to every communication,
typed and ready for his signature,
waiting for him to return and review them, On the
conference table on the long table in the
conference room adjoining his office in the
Teague building.
Quite often. When dark Calhoun came back on the
last flight.
To Easterwood Airport in that. In the late
evening. He would stop on the campus to review that
material.
And thankfully seldom. Found.
Problem with our drafts.
Thus. He could spend the next day looking forward.
Instead of having to. spend time with his
responses.
One of the key introductions for me to the
relationship of a nerdy and Calhoun came at the end
of my first official day
as a member of their squad.
I walked with Dr. Winerdi into Dr. Calhoun's
office, perhaps at 5.30 or so, and they began to
discuss some key issue.
Vice President Calhoun throughout his opinion,
and as well as the manner in which he had reached a
conclusion.
My startled ear then heard Dick Winerdi say
something like,
quote, You don't know what you're talking about.
That's a dumb idea. Why would you want to do
something like that? Period quote.
As a naive member of an administrative team, I was
stunned that a subordinate would dare speak to his
chief officer in that fashion. Quickly I learned,
however, that John Calhoun proudly listened
to an explanation from an individual that he knew
was speaking to him honestly and sincerely.
That same circumstance occurred to me. A similar
circumstance occurred to me in about a month.
When I went with Dr. Calhoun to a meeting of the
library committee and typist, I think I've
already shared that one. If not, leave a blank
space and I will.
Another place and time of Calhoun leadership, for
examples of Calhoun leadership, was the
gathering of the APC- the Academic Programs
Committee,
Academic Programs Council, which was in fact a
gathering of the deans.
Yours truly was added to that group. My first week.
In the Teague building.
It would include the Deans.
Plus. Ed Cooper, who was the director of
admissions and records. And would in later years.
be titled also as a dean.
That session, normally held at 1 30 on Monday
afternoons,
was the true academic staff session.
Paragraph. Gathered around the table was a group
which in hindsight, Dash,
obviously it was outstanding.
It included Fred Benson, the Dean of Engineering,
a comparatively quiet, reserved man.
But... Who...